The political retirement of Martin McGuinness on Thursday due to ill health marks the end of a remarkable journey. Perceived by some as a terrorist, others as a freedom fighter, he ended up a statesman, a journey similar to those previously made by other historical figures from Menachem Begin to Jomo Kenyatta and Nelson Mandela.  It also marks the closing of a chapter in Northern Ireland's turbulent history in which Mr McGuinness played a crucial role both as perhaps the most important IRA leader on the island of Ireland and one of its most skilled and charismatic politicians. Without his endeavours, in umbilical political partnership with his former comrade-in- arms, Gerry Adams, I doubt if Northern Ireland, despite the continuing fragility of its institutions, would be where it is today.  I first met Martin McGuinness 45 years ago this month, shortly after the day that became notorious as Bloody Sunday when British paratroops shot dead 13 civil rights marchers in the Bogside enclave of Londonderry/Derry.  I remember watching a candle-lit procession on its way to the church where the coffins of the dead were lying and being told by the nationalist politician, John Hume, to keep an eye on one of the mourners.  He pointed to Martin McGuinness. I followed his advice and soon met him on the steps of the gasworks that served as the IRA's headquarters in the Bogside. At the time he was second in command of the IRA's Derry Brigade. He was soon to become its commander.  He did not fit the stereotypical role of an IRA commander at the time. He was personable, highly articulate and utterly committed to his cause of getting the "Brits" out of the North.  A few months later, following an IRA ceasefire, he was sitting down in a posh house in Chelsea, along with Gerry Adams, as part of the IRA delegation that met the Northern Ireland Secretary, Willie Whitelaw. The IRA said it wanted a British withdrawal by 1975. Not surprisingly, the talks got nowhere and it was back to the "war".  If anyone had looked into a crystal ball at that time and told me that the young IRA commander would go on to become Northern Ireland's deputy prime minister, sharing power and joking, as "the chuckle brothers" with his former arch enemy, Ian Paisley, and then would don white tie and tails to dine with the Queen at Windsor Castle, I would have said that pigs might fly. But pigs did.  "The chuckle brothers" - Ian Paisley and Martin McGuinness at the Northern Ireland Assembly, 2007  Mr McGuinness's role was critical in persuading the IRA's rank-and-file that "armed struggle" had run its course and the future road to Sinn Fein's holy grail of a united Ireland lay in sharing power at Stormont with its unionist opponents.  This was tantamount to accepting partition (the division of Ireland in 1922 into two states) and the role of the British state - albeit, as far as Sinn Fein is concerned, a temporary accommodation as a means to an end.  Remarkably Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness finally persuaded the majority of the IRA to swallow the political heresy and agree to the ceasefire of 1994 that was to lead on to the Good Friday Agreement four years later.  A measure of the faith and trust that rank-and-file IRA men and women had in Martin McGuinness is reflected in the sentiment I heard from many of them that "if it's good enough for Martin, it's good enough for us". Such sentiments speak volumes of Mr McGuinness and the esteem in which he was held as IRA leader.  These landmark steps were only made possible as a result of a protracted and fraught secret back-channel dialogue, via an intermediary, between MI6 and MI5 in which Mr McGuinness was the key conduit to the IRA's ruling Army Council.  But Mr McGuinness, because of his IRA past, remains a controversial figure. There are still some Unionists who would take issue with the tribute paid by Ian Paisley's son who said that by working with his father, Martin McGuinness had "saved lives" and "made countless lives better".  His critics can only see him as the former leader of a terrorist organisation responsible for a grievous toll of death and destruction. They will never forget - or forgive the IRA - for the lives of the hundreds of policemen, soldiers and civilians murdered in the IRA's campaign and the number of families who have been left bereft.  But for me, the true recognition of the journey Mr McGuinness has made came in an interview I did with the mother of Marie Wilson, the young woman who died in the IRA's bomb attack on the Remembrance Day parade in Enniskillen in 1987.  The intelligence services believe that Martin McGuinness, although he denies it, was at that time the acting head of the IRA's Northern Command that prosecuted the "war" in the North.  In words of moving candour, Mrs Wilson said she respected Mr McGuinness's role in helping to bring the conflict to end and making such attacks, she hoped, a thing of the past. • None McGuinness will not stand in NI election
President Trump's first tweet on the @POTUS account showed this image  Much is written about the Herculean effort to move one family out of the White House and a new family in within the space of just a few hours.  But in our modern age, the digital moving trucks must also roar into action, as prime presidential online real estate gets a makeover, and eight years of President Obama's social media chat is confined to the national archives.  Let’s start with WhiteHouse.gov, the official website for the President, which as of noon Friday, has a brand new look - and has already provoked mild panic.  Many noted that pages about climate change were swiftly deleted. So too were pages about LGBT rights and various science policies.  But, let’s not get ahead of ourselves. Pages about everything were deleted as what was essentially Obama’s homepage was replaced with Trump’s.  That means posts about any former policy positions no longer exist on the White House website if you follow the original links.  So while the web address pointing to the White House’s position on climate change no longer works, the same can be said about Obama’s pages relating to the economy. Unpredictable as he is, no-one is suggesting Donald Trump is about to describe “money” as a hoax.  That said, on the new whitehouse.gov, a search for “military” will yield 154 results. “Climate change”? None.  Nervous internet sleuths have found one reference to climate change, a promise to lift the "harmful and unnecessary policies such as the Climate Action Plan and the Waters of the US rules".  Make of that what you will. People on Twitter certainly are.  Also wiped clean was the White House's petition website. On Friday, by 4pm in DC, only two petitions were posted on the site. The first demanded the release of the President's tax returns. The other demanded he put his businesses in a blind trust. If either petition gets 100,000 signatures, the White House has to provide a response - at least, that was the rule the previous administration set itself.  Trump reportedly gave up his cell phone upon assuming the presidency  Speaking of which, it’s all change on Twitter too.  From today @POTUS - President of the United States - has been taken over by the Trump team. All previous tweets from Obama’s team - and Obama himself - have been deleted from that account, but archived under @POTUS44. The 44 relating of course to the fact Obama was the 44th US President.  The tweets were not, as a smattering of people blurted out, “deleted by Trump” once he had control of the account.  Twitter removed them - and that's because scrubbing the account of Obama’s tweets is a smart move for everyone involved. Had Twitter left the old tweets in place you’ll find yourself seeing people retweeting Obama’s words but with Trump’s identity attached, a recipe for misinformation disaster.  Trump’s first tweet on @POTUS posted a picture and a link to his inaugural address - the full text of which was posted on Facebook. Is Trump having a change of heart over his social network of choice?  Maybe. Facebook certainly offers the chance to speak more clearly at length, and, as the leader of the free world, it would be more useful to post to an audience of almost two billion rather than Twitter’s rather limited 300m.  We won’t know for sure until about 3am, DC time, tomorrow morning. Everyone will be surely waiting for those twilight hours to see if the President springs back into life posting his thoughts on his own personal account, @realDonaldTrump.  Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC and on Facebook
Tamil actress Trisha Krishnan deleted her Twitter account as a result of a row over bull-taming  A ban on the ancient practice of bull-taming has spurred thousands to protest in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu. While the demonstrations have been mostly peaceful, the argument over the festival has turned ugly online.  This week around 4,000 protesters camped out on a beach in the state's capital, Chennai (Madras) - with hundreds more gathering in other parts of the state.  The crowd, who are mostly students, are against India's ban on Jallikattu, a 2,000 year old bull-taming tradition, which takes place as part of an annual harvest festival.  Bull-taming involves men chasing and removing prizes tied to the bull's horns. Animal rights activists argue it's abusive and results in mistreatment of the animals, but protesters contend the practice central to Tamil identity and that the bulls are rarely harmed or killed.  The men participating in Jallikattu attempt to grab prizes attached to the bull's horns  Jallikattu was banned by India's supreme court in 2014, a ruling that was upheld in 2016. The lawsuit that led to the ban was filed by animal rights groups including People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). And as protests against the ban have spread, PETA activists and supporters have found themselves targeted on social media.  "I have been threatened with rape I'm called all sorts of names which I can't repeat," says Poorva Joshipura, CEO of PETA India.  "The general public are being incited and influenced through lies and online bullying and fake news which has unfortunately become so common in our world today," Joshipura tells BBC Trending radio.  She takes particular issue with memes containing false personal information which have been shared online.  "One is a picture of me wearing my vegan boots (footwear made without leather or any animal ingredients), boots that I really like a lot. The meme falsely says that the boots are made of leather," Joshipura says. "I have been campaigning against the leather industry for years."  Hear more on this story on the BBC World Service.  The Indian film actress Trisha Krishnan has also been caught up in the debate. In 2010, Krishnan worked on a PETA campaign. Reports on social media suggested that she had tweeted, and then deleted, her support of a Jallikattu ban.  One of the social media posts spreading about the actress was a fake obituary claiming she had died of HIV.  The faked obituary poster of Trisha Krishnan lists cause of death as "HIV affected" - insinuating that the actress is sexually promiscuous. It also calls her father a "poramboku" (wastrel) and her mother a "peethasirukki" (boastful woman).  In response, Krishnan first denied that she supported the ban and later deactivated her Twitter account, releasing a statement saying: "I'm a proud Tamilian by birth and I believe and respect the Tamil culture and tradition and I will never go against the sentiments of my own people who have been instrumental in my growth and stature."  Krishnan declined a request by BBC Trending for an interview. Her spokesperson told us that "PETA and Trisha are separate", stressing that the actress had only collaborated with the group on one campaign.  Bull tamers must hold on to the animal's hump for about 15-20 metres or three jumps of the bull to win a prize  Krishnan wasn't the only high profile person targeted on social media. The actor Vishal also received online backlash for being a supporter of PETA, and subsequently deactivated his Twitter profile.  False allegations that the PETA India CEO Poorva Joshipura wears leather boots have been circulating online  The pictures and rumours have been spread by groups such as Chennai Memes, a politically active viral marketing agency which made up the leather boots rumour about Poorva Joshipura.  Gautam Govindaram, one of the founders of Chennai Memes, defended the group's decision in creating the meme, telling BBC Trending: "I'm sure she has at least one product that is made of leather. She can't say that she has never used any product in her lifetime that has not been made of leather. I can be 100% sure I mean if she's born and she's one year old or two years old she must have come across with something made of leather."  Operating primarily on Facebook, Chennai Memes create around 20 memes a day, often referencing local and national political and social issues.  The group were cited by local media as being key to galvanising and mobilising the youth-led protests over the Jallikattu ban - creating shareable posters and spreading information on dates and timings of events through their Facebook page, which has more than 600,000 fans.  Govindaram added that the group was not behind the memes targeting the actress Trisha Krishnan.  "It's not exactly only us, it's the entire people here in the state of Tamil Nadu who are making a stand," he says. "Why should an organisation from another country come here, tell us about our traditions and why do they have the government of India in the palm of their hand?"  A number of villages in Tamil Nadu are reported to have defied the Jallikattu ban and held bull-taming events this week. And other prominent South Indian film stars, like Rajinikant and Kamal Haasan, have expressed their support of the sport.  Next story: The Instagram star who cuts Michelle Obama's hair  Johnny Wright has several celebrity clients but perhaps none is as famous as the former First Lady. READ MORE  You can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending, and find us on Facebook. All our stories are at bbc.com/trending.
The 2004 Beslan school siege is remembered for the deaths of more than 330 people including 186 children, after a Russian school was seized by Chechen rebels. But the Belgian creators of a play, Us/Them, which relives the atrocity through the eyes of two children, say recent attacks have brought the story closer to home.  The actress Gytha Parmentier has now played Us/Them in three languages.  When the play opened in 2014 she was speaking in her native Flemish. Later she had to translate into French the words of her character - a young girl who dies in the Beslan siege.  Now she's making the one-hour piece work in English opposite Roman Van Houtven, the only other member of cast.  Last year the play was a hit at the Edinburgh Festival and it has now arrived at London's National Theatre.  "Acting in English, Roman and I had to learn to move our mouths in a very different way," she said. "But acting in a different language gives a new juiciness to what's in the script."  That script is by Carly Wijs, who also directs. She recalls the spark for the play came when her eight year-old son mentioned news coverage he'd just seen of the terror attack at the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi in 2013.  "Godfried had been watching the report on the children's news and I was struck by the way he described it. He spoke in a way which was almost aloof - at eight you're just becoming aware of things which are on your planet but not really of your own world of home and family.  "Then Bronks, which is a fantastic production company in Brussels, asked me for a theatre idea for children. So I thought I would break a taboo by writing about Beslan while borrowing Godfried's tone and his very objective manner."  In Belgium Wij/Zij has been listed as suitable for children of nine and above; in London the National Theatre pitches Us/Them for young people aged 12 and over.  The highly physical production is made for touring and the Dorfman stage at the National is almost bare apart from balloons and string.  The production avoids the off-putting cuteness which can trip up adult actors impersonating young children. The result is heart-breaking yet somehow heart-warming too.  The show may not strike theatregoers in advance as an obvious excursion for kids. But it's an unexpectedly charming hour in the theatre perfect for family viewing. However, the National has mainly programmed performances late in the evening which may be a bad call.  Wijs says her view of the events of 2004 was influenced by one TV documentary in particular.  "There was a beautiful BBC programme called Children of Beslan which was helpful: they spoke to many survivors. But our play isn't a documentary. It has to work for children who know nothing of Beslan and also for their parents who remember all that went on."  Parmentier says there are clear differences between how children and grown-ups react.  "Adults tend to laugh and cry in a different way: often the laughter is in relief when they think something horrible is about to happen on the stage and it doesn't.  "I think parents automatically work out a narrative arc in their minds but children are happy to switch their attention from one thing to another."  Wijs thinks for children almost the most horrifying thing is when the girl has to undress to her underwear because it's getting hot and stuffy in the school gymnasium.  "To them it's a nightmare but I suspect adults barely register the moment."  The play pre-dates last March's terror attacks in Brussels in which a total of 35 people died and hundreds were injured. Wijs lived in the Molenbeek district, a focus in the city of Islamist radicalisation.  "We haven't changed the play because of those bombings but if the Brussels attacks had come first I wonder if I could have created the play. I've just done another play in Brussels which is full of light and comedy - it's a reaction to the depressing times we live in.  But both women say they haven't ignored recent violence closer to home.  "In 2015 in Belgium we had a performance in Namur in (French-speaking) Wallonia, a few days after the Bataclan attack in Paris", says Parmentier.  "We and the theatre thought hard about whether we should cancel: would it be too hard to watch a play about so many people being killed? But instead the theatre arranged an audience discussion after the show and people were full of questions about what they had just seen. I think the play helped some of them process what had happened in Paris."  Us/Them is playing at the National Theatre until 18 February.
Here's a solution that could tackle two of the West's most urgent problems: a young generation priced out of affordable housing, and the loneliness and isolation of a rapidly ageing population.  For so-called millennials, like Mikyoung Ahn, a large home is a seemingly unattainable dream. She could not imagine living in a spacious detached house on the leafy outskirts of Paris, just half an hour from the Arc de Triomphe. She definitely couldn't imagine paying just 120 Euros (£100) a month to live there.  Yet, with the help of an innovative housing scheme, that idea is no longer a fantasy for the 25-year-old student from Seoul, South Korea.  An aspiring architect, she wanted to live and study in one of the world's cultural capitals. To realise her dream, she turned away from traditional student accommodation. Instead of moving in with other young people, Mikyoung chose as a landlady and housemate a 78-year-old widow with a passion for patchwork.  "I knew I was going away from home for university, and that I wouldn't have any family or any friends," she says. "But after the first meeting her, I knew it was going to be perfect."  Mikyoung and her landlady, Monique, have been living together since October, after they were matched by an organisation called Ensemble2Generations. This organisation and others like it pair elderly people with students, in an arrangement called homeshare.  The concept is simple, yet it attempts to bridge an intergenerational divide that exists in many parts of the world.  On one side are older people, who own properties that were purchased when house prices were comparatively cheap, but who may now need some help with daily activities like shopping and cleaning.  On the other side are young people, who cannot afford to rent a decent flat, but who may have some time to spare.  Monique has got Mikyoung into her hobby, quilting  Mikyoung helps Monique with a range of everyday tasks. She carries Monique's shopping in the supermarket, washes up, and has even created an instruction sheet to help Monique understand all the buttons on her TV remote.  "It's not a big deal," she says. "It's just life, you know. If I lived here, I would have to clean the dishes or take the trash out. I feel really this is my home - this is our home.  "Every night when I come back, I prepare the dinner and I put on the music that I have learned today. For example, Champs-Élysées or something like that, and we sing together."  Monique, who is a retired schoolteacher, is now an avid fan of Downton Abbey, after being introduced to the programme by Mikyoung.  "We have very good moments together, because we share a lot," says Monique. "We often sit together and watch TV programmes. Everything is simple between us."  Turning to Monique, she adds: "You are like a granddaughter to me."  Homeshare is not a new idea - it was first trialled in the USA and Spain during the 1980s. However, experts have recently started to view it as a scalable solution to two problems that continue to cause social problems. While young people are migrating to cities, pushing up the price of rent, many populations in the developed world are ageing.  Meet the people fixing the world in the new World Service programme, World Hacks  Homeshare schemes are now active in 16 countries across the world. Since 1999, an organisation called Homeshare International has acted as a network for homeshare schemes.  "The benefits to the householder are they feel much safer at home because of having someone else in the house," says Elizabeth Mills, the organisation's director. "They're happier, incidents of accidents and falls go down, and the reassurance for the householder's family is absolutely enormous."  Most programmes offer two homeshare arrangements for prospective participants. The first allows the student to live in an elderly person's home rent-free in exchange for help around the house. The second requires the student to contribute money to household bills, but places fewer burdens on their time.  It costs roughly 900 Euros a month for a student to live in the centre of Paris  So will schemes like this help solve the housing crises of millenials - and the problems of the elderly?  Research into homeshare projects in Spain and the USA indicates that participants are overwhelmingly satisfied by the arrangement. The Spanish study, for example, reported that 93.2% of elderly people had benefitted in some way from the programme, while 98.7% of students had benefitted.  The organisation that paired Monique and Mikyoung, Ensemble2Generations, conducts face-to-face interviews before placing people together. Students even have to put pen to paper to explain why they want a placement, so that their application can be examined by a handwriting expert. Despite this, some partnerships simply do not work out.  A major issue is that people of different generations may not always get on. Monique's previous housemate was a young gardener who spent a lot of time out of the house. When they did occasionally eat together, the gardener did not want to have a conversation. Instead, according to Monique, he just stared vacantly at his phone. But that did not shake Monique's confidence in homeshare.  "I never doubted whether I wanted to homeshare. I knew there were other people out there… It is a good solution for me."  And although the gardener did not provide much companionship for Monique, experts widely acknowledge that homeshare is an effective antidote to loneliness - a problem that affects over one million elderly people in Britain, according to Age UK. Helen Bown, a policy expert who specialises in social isolation, says that the emotional support provided by a homeshare relationship often exceeds its financial advantages.  "People talk about not feeling so lonely anymore, particularly people who are single, " she says. "People have talked about having a safety net, particularly at night.  "I think one of the most compelling things that people have talked about, consistently, is the impact emotionally for people - the positive relationship. The feeling that people are contributing; that they are part of a mutually beneficial relationship, not just a transaction of care and support."  This is certainly the case for Armelle, a 64 year-old woman living in Cergy, northwest of Paris. Eighteen months ago, Armelle's husband died of cancer. Devastated, and fearing loneliness, she got in touch with Ensemble2Generations. Since then, she has housed a 19-year-old student called Blandine, from Versailles, who is studying engineering at a local university.  "If my husband had been here, I would never have thought of accommodating a student," says Armelle. "But she's like a companion. It's so good to have a presence in the house. I enjoy Blandine's company a lot."  Armelle and Blandine have an easygoing friendship  Armelle and Blandine's relationship is like a casual friendship. They relax together in the evenings and chat about their lives. While she was away from the house for a few days, Armelle even allowed Blandine to have a house party.  "Though her contract says that she's not allowed to have friends over, I know that I can trust her," says Armelle, laughing. "I even helped her organise it."  The house has a large fireplace and a spectacular view over the lakes of Cergy. Unsurprisingly, Blandine is fond of these home comforts, and is not keen on moving into a cramped student flat for the next academic year.  "In student accommodation everything is in the same room, except for the bathroom," she says, wrinkling up her nose.  "I have a few friends who are offering to flat-share next year. I tell them, "Why not?" but I'm actually very comfortable here - I'm not sure I'm going to leave."  Join the conversation - find World Hacks on Facebook, and follow the BBC World Service on Twitter.
The papers are dominated by coverage of the US presidential inauguration - with every front page featuring a picture of Donald Trump.  Mr Trump, says the Times, unveiled a new era - but it notes that the imagery was unusually dark for an inaugural address, with the president describing crime-ridden inner cities, catastrophic levels of drug addiction, and rusted-out factories.  The Daily Mirror describes it as a "chilling inaugural speech" in which Mr Trump vowed to put the United States first - "and to hell with every other country".  The Daily Mail says it was an incendiary speech, that both electrified and divided his nation.  It points out the the new president had been expected to finally go easy on the vitriol and enjoy the pomp and ceremony of the event. But it says he used the speech to fire both barrels at the political establishment.  In the view of the Financial Times, the new president made a defiant and uncompromising address, in which he promised to revive the country with an aggressive rejection of globalisation. The paper says his inauguration marked the end of an incredible journey that was propelled by a groundswell of populism.  The Sun says more than a billion people watched the swearing in of the new president on TV, with 900,000 spectators on the National Mall in Washington to witness Mr Trump give a thumbs up and fist pump. However the paper notes that the crowd in Washington was only half of that which saw Barack Obama become the first black president in 2009.  Writing in the Guardian, Gary Younge says there was no higher calling, no sense of a greater purpose, and no impassioned idealism. He describes the first words of Mr Trump's presidency as a "crude and unapologetic appeal to nationalism".  In the i, Michael Day describes the address as "lousy" and says "it hardly made the heart soar".  The editorials have mixed messages for President Trump.  The Sun says that now he is in the Oval Office, he may be stunned by the complexity of many of the problems he faces. It notes that plenty of people will write him off - but says that President Reagan was written off too - before he changed the world.  The Daily Mail claims his speech was "truly astonishing" - as he tore up the rule book and delivered an inauguration address unlike any heard before.  The Daily Express asserts that the progressive left-leaning programme, which seemed woven into Western democracy, is now being unravelled. It says this is a profound change, which will affect us all.  According to the Daily Telegraph, the inaugural address was what Mr Trump's supporters had gathered in their thousands to hear. But it says that for outsiders, it was an unsettling speech that seemed to presage the emergence of an inward-looking, isolationist America.  The Daily Mirror says the US and the rest of the world should be "very afraid" following what it describes as the new president's "rambling, pugnacious and protectionist speech".  The Guardian is equally horrified, saying his America First nationalism was both "crude and shameless". It concludes the reality of a Trump presidency is a "terrifying prospect".  A number of papers also leave space to comment on the person whose day it could have been: Hillary Clinton.  The Daily Mail says protocol demanded she attended the inauguration with her husband - and her solemn face showed the strain as she arrived at the US Capitol.  The Daily Express observes the former first lady looked more like she was attending a funeral.  For the Guardian, Mrs Clinton stood stoically as chants of "lock her up" emanated from the crowd. However, on a more positive note, it adds that she left the ceremony waving to supporters and smiling broadly.  Finally - despite their disagreements about President Trump - the papers all seem united on one point.  The Daily Mirror,Daily Express and the Sun all declare that the stand-out person at Friday's events was the new First Lady, Melania Trump.  Many commentators, including the fashion director of the Daily Telegraph, compare her to Jackie Kennedy.  The Guardian says she wore a sleek ice blue dress and jacket, which was custom-made by US designer Ralph Lauren.  For the Daily Mail, she did not put a foot wrong, describing her as the "dazzling new First Lady".
As a pro-coal president strides into the White House, the rest of the world is rallying in defence of the climate.  Donald Trump has called climate change "a hoax" and filled his cabinet with representatives of fossil fuel industries.  One of the world's leading climate scientists told me she was positively scared about his potential impact on the planet.  But so far the leaders who joined with President Barack Obama in Paris in 2015 to sign the global climate deal are standing firm.  As Mr Trump ponders pulling out of the UN climate deal, China, India, Germany, the EU and the UK have all reaffirmed their promise to curb CO2 emissions.  And in the USA itself, moves have already been made to consolidate the low-carbon economy in a sign that fossil fuel companies will still face a battle over CO2 emissions, even with support from the White House.  Only this week, China's President, Xi Jin Ping, warned Mr Trump that walking away from the Paris deal would endanger future generations.  As Mr Trump promises to boost jobs by scrapping President Obama's clean energy plans, China is pushing on with a $361bn (£293bn) investment in renewable energy by 2020.  China's Xie Zhenhua says the world will pressure the Trump administration over clean energy  China's green aspirations are undermined by its expansion of coal-fired power stations, but this week it also suspended plans for 104 new coal plants.  Xie Zhenhua, the veteran climate negotiator who forged a close partnership on clean energy between the two mega-powers, told China Daily that the global momentum behind low-carbon technology was unstoppable.  He was quoted as saying: "Industrial upgrades aiming for more sustainable growth is a global trend… it is not something that can be reversed by a single political leader.  "The international community and US citizens will pressure the Trump administration to continue clean energy policies."  The State Department may not dismiss this flippantly: while US-Chinese relations may be increasingly frosty in many areas, climate change and clean energy remain a valuable sphere of co-operation.  American politicians may also be wary of watching China seize the moral heights as world leader in tackling climate change.  Its energy minister, Piyush Goyal, said this week: "We respect the fact that America has chosen its leader.  "However, clean energy is not something that we are working on because somebody else wants us to do it - it's a matter of faith and the faith of the leadership in India.  "Nothing on Earth is going to stop us from doing that."  Solar energy prices are now on a par with coal in India, which boasts the world's biggest solar farm and the first chemical plant to eat its own CO2 emissions.  It will continue to expand coal-fired generation for the next few years, but its National Electricity Plan projects no further increase in coal-based capacity after 2022 - much earlier than previously suggested.  India's Tuticorin plant is the world's first zero-emission chemical facility  Dollars, technology and jobs will pour into clean energy in these countries, and the USA will surely be keen not to miss out.  Meanwhile, moves are being made to consolidate President Obama's climate legacy.  The US previously pledged $3bn to the UN's green fund to help poor countries adapt to climate change and get clean technology.  Mr Trump won support among some voters for promising to stop payments and spend the cash on American citizens instead.  But this week President Obama slipped the fund a further $500m.  And it won't just be on the international stage that Mr Trump's team will face fossil fuel battles.  Some early skirmishes on American soil are already under way.  This week, the Environmental Protection Agency cemented stricter efficiency standards for cars.  Republicans will try to reverse this - but when carmakers previously resisted efficiency rules, they ended up producing such uncompetitive gas-guzzlers that the industry had to be bailed out.  Even Republican plans to boost extraction of fossil fuels, while popular in some states because the industries create jobs, will provoke local resistance from people who don't want oil pipelines, or don't want the tops blown off their mountains to get to coal.  It may be hard to persuade investors to put cash into coal anyway.  Many states will resist fossil fuels, too.  California has long led the way on car emissions and recently insisted it will keep its right to set its own tighter regulations for cars.  Mr Trump's team may try to rescind this.  The Paris climate agreement resulted in 195 nations pledging to reduce emissions  There are already CO2 trading schemes between states on the east and west coasts, and last week New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced plans to build enough offshore wind capacity by 2030 to power 1.25 million homes.  Here's the big picture: as the world moves together to tackle climate change, it is clearly problematic if the biggest historic polluter threatens to pull in the opposite direction.  Will Angela Merkel, for instance, be so sanguine about Germany's controversial switch to renewables if the US forces its already-low energy prices even lower, triggering protests from German industry?  In the words of Jo Haigh, professor of atmospheric physics at Imperial College, London: "If Trump does what he said he'd do, and others follow suit, my gut feeling is that I'm scared. Very scared."  But he may not. And they may not.
Theresa May has congratulated Donald Trump on taking office as US president - and says she looks forward to meeting him in Washington.  The prime minister stressed her belief he was committed to advancing the "special relationship" with the UK.  But Mrs May told the Financial Times she expects "very frank" talks on areas where their opinions seem to differ such as the EU and Nato.  The PM said she hoped for early progress on a US-UK trade agreement.  Mrs May said she believed Mr Trump "recognises the importance and significance of Nato", despite him being quoted earlier in the week as describing the military alliance as "obsolete".  "I'm also confident the USA will recognise the importance of the co-operation we have in Europe to ensure our collective defence and collective security," she told the FT.  Mr Trump also said recently he did not really care if the EU separated.  Mrs May, who this week outlined for the first time her plan for Brexit, said: "The decision taken by the UK was not a decision about breaking up the EU.  "I want the EU to continue to be strong and I want to continue to have a close and strategic partnership with the EU. It is important for security issues. With the threats we face it's not the time for less co-operation."  Mr Trump was sworn-in as the 45th US president on Friday.  In a statement issued after the inauguration, Mrs May said: "From our conversations to date, I know we are both committed to advancing the special relationship between our two countries and working together for the prosperity and security of people on both sides of the Atlantic.  "I look forward to discussing these issues and more when we meet in Washington."  In her FT interview, Mrs May said she was "confident we can look at areas even in advance of being able to sign a formal trade deal".  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. "We will determine the course of America and the world for many, many years to come", Donald Trump said  But despite Mr Trump's indication he backed a quick post-Brexit trade deal, there was a heavily protectionist tone in the inauguration speech.  Some Labour MPs questioned how the prime minister's aim of a free trade deal with the US would be possible given the "America first" strategy outlined by Mr Trump.  David Lammy tweeted: "Every decision on trade will be made to benefit Americans. Hmm - looking forward to this trade deal, then."  Chris Bryant said: "I'm not sure a UK trade deal with Trump will be very mutually beneficial."  However, speaking to the BBC in Myanmar, also known as Burma, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said there was every reason to "be positive and optimistic" about a trade deal.  "I think the new president has made it very clear that he wants to put Britain at the front of the line... and obviously that's extremely exciting and important".  Earlier Mr Johnson offered his own "warmest congratulations" to Mr Trump.  He said the UK would "work hand in glove for the stability, the prosperity and the security of the world".  Meanwhile, Thousands of women are expected to join a march in London later as part of an international protest campaign on the first full day of Mr Trump's presidency.  Mr Trump has appeared to make good on a pledge to return a bust of Sir Winston Churchill to the White House's Oval Office.  The bust of Sir Winston Churchill can be seen on the far left as Mr Trump prepares to sign his first orders in the Oval Office  The sculpture of the World War Two prime minister's face is said to be a replica of one given to President Lyndon B Johnson in the 1960s and first appeared in the Oval Office during George W Bush's administration in 2001.  It was replaced by a bust of civil rights champion Martin Luther King Jr during Barack Obama's presidency.  The presence of the Churchill bust was noticed as Mr Trump signed his first orders as president.  A report that the bust of Dr King no longer remained in the Oval Office was later found to be discredited.
Sinn Féin's successor as Northern Ireland leader of the party will be announced next week  Former deputy first minister Martin McGuinness has confirmed he will not stand in the Northern Ireland Assembly election.  His successor as Sinn Féin's leader in Northern Ireland will be announced next week.  So who will replace him? Three names are tipped as the most likely contenders - Finance Minister Máirtín Ó Muilleoir, Health Minister Michelle O'Neill and MLA and former MP Conor Murphy.  Conor Murphy is a key member of the Sinn Féin negotiating team who has represented the party at the Hillsborough, Leeds Castle and St Andrew's negotiations as well as playing a key role in the Fresh Start agreement negotiated at Stormont House.  Conor Murphy has represented the party at the Hillsborough, Leeds Castle and St Andrew's negotiations  After his election to the assembly in 1998, he was the party's chief whip.  In 2005, he became the first Sinn Féin member to be elected as MP for Newry and Armagh.  Following Mr Murphy's re-election to the assembly in 2007, he was appointed minister for regional development, a position that he held until 2011.  He was criticised for the NI Water crisis as minister during the winter of 2010/11.  In 2012, ahead of a ban on double-jobbing, he left the assembly to concentrate on his role as an MP.  He returned to the Assembly in 2015 when Mickey Brady was elected MP for the constituency. Since re-entering the assembly he has been a member of both the Enterprise, Trade and Investment Committee and the Public Accounts Committee.  Health Minister Michelle O'Neill has held various senior positions within Sinn Féin.  She has worked in the Assembly since 1998, initially as political adviser to MP and former MLA Francie Molloy, before being elected to Dungannon and South Tyrone Borough Council in 2005.  As health minister since May 2016, tackling mounting hospital waiting lists has been a huge task for Mrs O'Neill  Mrs O'Neill was elected to the assembly for the Mid Ulster constituency in 2007, sitting on the education committee and serving as Sinn Féin's health spokesperson.  In 2011, she was appointed as minister for agriculture and rural development.  The following year, she announced that the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) would move to a former British army barracks in Ballykelly, County Londonderry.  Following the announcement, it came to light that Strabane had been chosen as a more suitable location by an internal DARD assessment, a decision that Mrs O'Neill then overruled.  In February 2013, it was also revealed that the decision had been questioned by the Finance Minister Sammy Wilson.  As health minister since 2016, tackling mounting hospital waiting lists have been a huge task for Mrs O'Neill.  In October, she launched a 10-year plan to transform health service, saying it would improve a system that was at "breaking point".  Opposition politicians questioned the lack of details in the plan, which was not costed.  But it set out a range of priorities, including a new model of care involving a team of professionals based around GP surgeries.  Máirtín Ó Muilleoir has previously been a writer, journalist and publisher of the Belfast Media Group newspapers and the Irish Echo in New York.  Máirtín Ó Muilleoir became finance minister in May 2016  The former west Belfast councillor served as Lord Mayor of Belfast from June 2013-June 2014 and was broadly praised for reaching out to unionists, despite attacks by loyalist protestors.  Mr Ó Muilleoir subsequently stood unsuccessfully as Sinn Féin's candidate for South Belfast in the 2015 Westminster election, but was returned in the Stormont Assembly election of May 2016.  As finance minister, he was the first Sinn Féin minister to hold a major economic brief in the Northern Ireland Assembly.  His role has included leading the implementation of the devolution of corporation tax, due to happen in 2018.  However, he became embroiled in controversy in 2016 when news emerged about a back channel of communication between a Stormont committee chairman and a witness who was giving evidence on the Nama property loan sale.  Mr Ó Muilleoir denied knowledge of alleged coaching of loyalist blogger Jamie Bryson by finance committee chair Daithí McKay before his appearance.
I have a special connection to an enigmatic Belfast man whose music crosses jazz, blues, folk and rock.  In the late 1980s, I was held hostage in Beirut. Of my five years in captivity, four were spent with the Irish writer Brian Keenan.  Stripped of virtually all external stimuli, we had to keep our minds and hearts going with memories.  Two lonely men, we shared things that had touched us - books, films and music.  Our soundscape then was as blank and depressing as the concrete walls of our cells. But music would emerge from our memories and we would hum snatches of songs as they came to us.  Brian talked of traditional Irish music and of the great Belfast musician Van Morrison.  I had never seen Morrison in concert but knew some of his hits - Brown Eyed Girl, Gloria and Moondance.  But as Brian spoke, I somehow I felt as though I had stood with him in a crowded Belfast concert hall watching Morrison leaning into the microphone as he sang one of his soulful ballads - or throwing himself about the stage like a wild man, overwhelmed by the power of the music.  Morrison is only a few years older than Brian and was born only a few streets away in East Belfast.  They went to the same school and came from the same modest backgrounds. Morrison's father had been a shipyard worker and they had grown up in near identical, small terraced houses. However, only a short walk away, was another world, a street lined with large villas called Cyprus Avenue.  Morrison wrote about it on a track on his seminal album, Astral Weeks. Brian took me to these streets for the first time to record a BBC radio documentary, Van Morrison and Me.  Two years ago, Morrison played a concert on Cyprus Avenue which Brian attended.  He dedicated the song "Motherless Child" to Brian, something he has never forgotten and which deeply moved him.  "It's a song which has a very special significance for me. Chained to a wall, never knowing if you were ever getting out, ever going home, your whole sense of who you were evaporated. And you felt lost and lonely, a bit like a motherless child," Brian said.  When I was finally released in 1991, I strove to come to terms with what had happened with the help of my girlfriend Jill Morrell, who had been campaigning constantly for my release.  We settled in a cottage in the Oxfordshire countryside and Morrison's music became a key part of our liberation soundtrack.  Jill and I tried to make sense of those extraordinary times, writing a memoir of my captivity and her campaign.  One song particularly touched us both, and that was Wonderful Remark.  I remember one night getting a magnifying glass to read the lyrics crammed onto the cassette's sleeve notes.  As I read, I was stunned. Morrison's words seemed to capture the emotional heart of our experience over the hostage years: "How can you stand the silence, that pervades when we all cry? How can you watch the violence that erupts before your eyes?"  How did he come to write that?  I had met Morrison once or twice since my release at charity events and hoped that personal connection might help persuade him to speak to me about his music.  So I was delighted when he agreed to meet me at the Culloden Hotel, a beautiful former bishop's palace on the outskirts of Belfast. When I asked him about Wonderful Remark, he told me that it was a song about hard times he had suffered in New York.  He was short of money and felt stranded, a situation which contrasts to mine. But we both experienced similar feelings of frustration and sadness, as Morrison explained: "It was a song about my circumstances but it was nothing compared to what you've been through. It was about people who were supposed to be helping you and they weren't there.  "It was about the business I'm in and the world in general. A lot of the times you can't count on anybody."  Brian took me from Cyprus Avenue to other locations which feature in Morrison's songs. Hyndford Street, where Morrison grew up and the nearby Beachie River.  Brian told me he used to go there as a boy with his father: "If we missed school, we'd go round there and catch frogs and newts. And it was a place where you could go courting where nobody could see what you were up to."  John McCarthy and Brian Keenan next to a mural celebrating Belfast's most famous musician  Ian Rankin is another writer who says he has been influenced by Morrison's music at an important moment in his life.  In his mid-20s he was living in London, frustrated that he was not making progress as an author.  He told me how, after suffering panic attacks, his doctor advised him to rest.  So he grabbed a handful of Van Morrison cassettes and caught a train up to Scarborough to reflect on his life.  "It's very personal music and I thought here's someone who understands something of what I'm going through, they've seen highs and lows," he said.  While Wonderful Remark is the stand-out Morrison song for me, Ian was most influenced at the time by tracks from Morrison's 1973 album Hard Nose the Highway: "What I learnt was something about ploughing your own furrow. Don't let the world get in the way, if you want to be a writer, be a writer."  Ian decided to move to France to concentrate on writing novels. He has since written 21 Inspector Rebus books and become a world-famous author.  Van Morrison - Sir Van Morrison now - is rightly regarded as one of the truly original songwriters and performers of his generation.  His official accolades include two Grammys and an Ivor Novello award. One song - Someone Like You - has appeared in no less than seven Hollywood movies.  But the real accolades are from the millions of people, like me, who have, time and time again, been moved by his songs.  When I asked him how he had managed to touch so many people's lives, he said it was about working with the natural talent with which he had been born.  "I think it comes from God, whatever that concept is. A lot of people are given gifts and they don't develop them. I thought because I was given this gift, I had to develop it."  You can listen to John McCarthy reflect on Van Morrison's influence on his life on BBC World Service at 14:06 GMT on Saturday or on demand afterwards via iPlayer Radio.
When the so-called Islamic State group seized control of a town near Mosul and began killing police officers, some of them resorted to unconventional measures to stay alive, reports John Beck.  For more than two-and-a-half years it helped keep the middle-aged former police officer hidden from IS and safe from the bullets and knives that killed almost all his colleagues.  When the jihadists arrived in his hometown of Hammam al-Alil in mid-2014, as they swept across northern Iraq, the first things they did was to round up police and army officers.  They killed the higher-ranking men immediately, but eventually offered an amnesty of sorts to the rest. If they renounced the government in Baghdad and pledged to live under IS rules, then they'd go free.  Abu Alawi stayed in hiding. At first in his home or a bolthole dug in his garden. But IS searches became more stringent and he realised that he'd have to move further afield.  Ahmed, 22, from a pro-government militia, stands in a burnt-out building used by IS as a prison  The solution, he decided, was a niqab - the black, face-concealing veil that IS forces all women under its rule to wear. From then on, when a sympathetic friend would tip him off about impending searches, he'd shroud his moustachioed face and portly figure and move somewhere safer, disguised as a woman.  There was a thrill, he said, in "playing" with IS, but when he passed close by the black-clad militants it wasn't fun any more. Then he feared he'd share the fate of friends who'd donned the same disguise but been less lucky, or less convincing, and were arrested as a result.  "They were near to me so many times and I was so afraid," he said, miming a heart pounding in his chest. "All the time I was thinking I was going to be checked and discovered."  IS eventually left Hammam al-Alil, setting oil wells alight as it went  Hammam al-Alil is a former spa town, once famous for the therapeutic powers of its thermal springs. It's hard to imagine holidaymakers visiting now. I met Abu Alawi there as he waited for a Danish non-governmental organisation to distribute blankets and solar heaters on a cold and damp winter morning. Men and women split into separate queues and stood patiently between the muddy puddles.  After IS arrived, I was told, they gathered the former officers in the town's main square. Then they blindfolded them, loaded them on to trucks that drove a short way out of town, and shot or beheaded them.  Federal police took me to one mass grave, a police shooting range turned rubbish dump. The awful smell was the first sign of what had happened there.  Then came the clouds of flies and, lying amid the refuse, between discarded children's toys and food packaging, the badly decomposed remains of a man - his hands and legs bound and marked by signs of torture.  "Under here it's all bodies," our escort said, gesturing towards a series of narrow trenches covered with bulldozed earth and he cautioned that the area was probably still booby-trapped with improvised explosive devices. He estimated there were at least 350 people buried in the area.  Another man in the aid distribution queue, Abu Ali - younger, taller and thinner than Abu Alawi - produced his old police ID card.  He'd buried it in his garden while IS was here, and he too had survived the massacre, in part thanks to a niqab.  "All I did was hide, hide and wear the veil like this," he said, stooping over to minimise his stature.  His brother, a fellow officer, was executed, leaving behind a wife and seven children. And when they left Hammam al-Ali, IS took Abu Ali's father with them to Mosul as a human shield.  This was not a unique story. Everyone I spoke to in the town had lost someone, some entire families. One militia member in his early 20s said IS had killed his parents and murdered or captured seven of his brothers.  But a semblance of normal life has in some ways returned to the town.  At the dilapidated thermal baths near the banks of the Tigris, smiling children and soldiers played in the warm waters.  Others collected grey mineral-rich mud in bottles and touted its therapeutic qualities.  It may be the start of healing, but the scars of occupation by IS will last for some time yet.  Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
The last time tuition fees were increased there were waves of student protests  How much will it cost to get a degree in England when tuition fees increase to £9,250 in the autumn?  If that seems high for a three-year degree, that's how much a think tank has calculated a student could have to pay back with interest.  And that wouldn't be the full size of the debt. There could be another £40,000 still outstanding when fee loans are written off after 30 years.  When fees start increasing from this autumn, it will mean borrowing about £28,600 for three years, with the amount then rising with inflation each year.  But while students have battled for years over the headline figure of £9,000 and now £9,250, the Intergenerational Foundation says they're missing the much bigger picture of what it will really cost in repayments.  And it's going to publish its findings in a report called The Packhorse Generation.  These extra costs start to rack up while a student is still at university, because interest is charged as soon as students start their courses, adding thousands to the debt before students have even graduated.  Students pay back fee loans from their earnings after graduation  Students start paying back their fee loans once they earn more than £21,000 per year - and the more they earn the more they pay each month, until the debt, plus interest, is cleared.  So this means total repayments can vary widely.  The think tank, which campaigns for fairness between generations, forecasts that:  A more likely scenario is that a graduate would start on a lower salary and gradually progress upwards.  And the think tank gives an example of someone starting out on £22,000 and then rising over the years to £41,000, with the projection that they would pay back about £31,000 and leave a further £69,000 unpaid.  These are not necessarily bad deals for students if it helps them into a good career.  But Estelle Clarke, a former City lawyer on the advisory board of the Intergenerational Foundation, argues that we're failing to understand the "stranglehold" of debt that we're building up for young people.  She also warns we should be looking nervously at the vast scale of write-offs in the current system.  Would the sell-off of student loans mean tougher terms?  At present the taxpayer picks up the tab for unpaid loans after 30 years, allowing graduates to walk away from tens of thousands of pounds of debt and interest charges.  "Taxpayers end up paying for this system twice over. Firstly, they will shoulder the burden of an economy deprived of cash as millions of graduates' incomes are diverted to loan repayments," says Ms Clarke.  "And secondly, they shoulder the burden of the non-repayment of most loans due to the extortionate ratcheting up of interest in spite of regular payments made."  But the government has long considered selling off more of the student loan book to the private financial sector.  Would a private operator, looking hungrily at monthly repayments from millions of graduates, want more favourable terms and a bigger slice of that unpaid debt?  Ms Clarke warns that there is not nearly enough protection for students against future changes to repayment arrangements to "extract even more cash from graduates' pockets".  "No other lending has so little protection," she says.  New York plans to offer free tuition to middle-income families  By international standards, the only real comparison for such levels of student borrowing is the United States.  But as England is increasing the cost of tuition, the US has been trying to reverse out of a spiral of higher fees and higher debt.  This month the governor of New York announced a plan to scrap tuition fees at state universities and colleges for families earning up to $125,000 (£102,000) per year, which would help 80% of households.  It reflected deep-seated middle class anxieties about student debt - especially for families not rich enough to afford the fees and not poor enough to get financial support.  This really can be a lifetime of debt, with warnings this month of aggressive tactics from lenders trying to recover student loans from pensioners, with the over-60s in the US still owing £55bn of student debt.  Under the Obama administration there had been growing efforts to tackle student debt.  But with the election of President Trump the future of student loans, now measured in the trillions, has become much less predictable.  The Department for Education argues that England's system is already extremely accessible, because there are no upfront costs for any students.  Instead the costs are backloaded to be paid after graduates are working.  And since graduates are likely to earn more, they can afford the cost of repayments, which in turn supports the next generation of students.  "The English system of student funding is sustainable, and has been recognised as such by the OECD," said a Department for Education spokeswoman.  "Critically, our system removes financial barriers for anyone hoping to study - with record numbers of young people from disadvantaged backgrounds going to university last year."  But this is something of a turning point - with fees and debts about to begin a long upward curve. And the Intergenerational Foundation's warnings cast a cold light on the scale of the escalating costs.  Will this be the next stage of a sophisticated, self-funding, open-access, affordable university system, or unwitting steps towards a financial sinkhole? • None New York to scrap tuition fees for middle class
Two British officials failed to win favour from German business leaders in Berlin  The distinguished audience members were too polite to heckle. But the eye rolling, frowns and audible tutting made it quite clear how the Brexiteers' message was going down with German business leaders.  Owen Paterson, a former minister and Conservative MP, and John Longworth, co-chair of Leave Means Leave, came to Berlin on Saturday with a clear mission - to persuade German business leaders to lobby Chancellor Angela Merkel to give Britain a good trade deal.  They should have been on safe territory.  The two men are confident, witty speakers with impressive business and free-trade credentials.  Mr Longworth is a former head of the British Chamber of Commerce. Mr Paterson's years spent trading in Germany meant he could open his address with a few remarks in German - which drew an appreciative round of applause - and a well-judged joke about multilingual trade.  But it turned out they had entered the lion's den.  The laughter from the audience quickly turned to sniggers as they heard the UK described as "a beacon of open, free trade around the world".  Westminster's decision to leave the world's largest free trade area does not look like that to Germany.  When Europe was blamed for spending cuts and a lack of British health care provision, there were audible mutters of irritation from the audience.  The occasional light-hearted attempts at EU-bashing - usually guaranteed to get a cheap laugh with some British audiences - was met with stony silence.  Brexiteers argue German manufacturers will want to still sell to UK customers  In another setting - at another time - this gathering of the elite of Germany's powerful business community would have lapped up the British wit.  Every ironic quip would ordinarily have had them rolling in the aisles. But British charm does not travel well these days.  Rattled by the economic havoc Brexit could unleash, Germans are not in the mood for gags.  Britain used to be seen by continentals as quirky and occasionally awkward - but reliably pragmatic on the economy.  However, since the Brexit vote, Europeans suspect endearing eccentricity has morphed into unpredictable irrationality. The UK has become the tipsy, tweedy uncle, who after too much Christmas sherry has tipped over into drunkenly abusive bore.  When the audience was asked how many of them welcomed Brexit, only one hand went up - and it turned out that belonged to a businessman who wanted more EU reform and was fed up with Britain slowing things down.  Brexiteer rhetoric over the past year has often focused on the size of Britain's market and how keen German manufacturers are to sell to British customers.  Many leave campaigners remain convinced that German business leaders will force Mrs Merkel to grant the UK a special free trade deal in order not to lose British trade.  But that's not what's happening.  Angela Merkel has said Britain will not be able to cherry-pick the best bits of the single market  Instead German firms are remarkably united in their support of the chancellor in her rejection of British "cherry-picking" - even if it means losing business in the short-term.  When you talk to German bosses they say their top priority is in fact the integrity of the single market, rather than hanging on to British customers.  That's because their supply chains span across the EU.  A German car might be designed in Germany, manufactured in Britain, with components made in various parts of eastern Europe, to be sold in France. This only works if there are no cross-border tariffs, paperwork or red tape.  German companies - more often family-owned and with deeper connections to their regional heartlands - tend to look at the wider picture, sometimes thinking more long-term.  They supported Mrs Merkel on sanctions against Russia over Ukraine, even though that meant a blow to trade. The financial hit was deemed less bad for business than worsening unrest in nearby Ukraine.  The same calculations are being made over Brexit.  Theresa May's speech on Brexit last week made front page news in Germany  This doesn't mean German business is thinking politically, and not economically. But rather, it indicates a wider attitude towards how business can thrive long-term.  German business leaders tell you that the British market may be important. But it is only one market, compared to 27 markets in the rest of the EU.  Leave campaigners also still underestimate the political and historical significance of the EU for Germany, where it is seen as the guarantor of peace after centuries of warfare.  It is tempting to see the clashes between Westminster and the EU27 as one big decades-long misunderstanding of what the EU is.  An idealistic peace-project versus a pragmatic free-trade zone. This makes it even more ironic that London may reject the free-trade area it spent so much time creating.  Germany was shocked and saddened by the UK's vote to leave the EU. But the decision was quickly accepted in Berlin.  "The Brits never really wanted to be members of the European Union anyway," is something you often hear these days.  Many Germans now want to just work out a solution that does the least amount of harm to the European economy. Hence the irritation in Germany when British politicians keep rehashing the pre-referendum debate.  "It was frustrating to hear the same old arguments from the referendum campaign," one business leader told me when I asked him what he had thought about Saturday's discussion.  Germany has moved on, he said. Maybe Britain should too.  The Brexiteers might not have persuaded their audience in Berlin. But if they return to London with a better idea of the mood in Germany's business community, then the trip may well have been worthwhile.
When the Chinese city of Shanghai took part in the three-yearly Pisa test of 15-year-olds' academic ability in 2009 and 2012 it topped the table in maths, leaving countries such as Germany the UK and the US - and even Singapore and Japan - trailing in its wake. What is its secret?  The life of a teacher in a Shanghai primary school differs quite a bit from that of teachers in most other countries. For one thing each teacher specialises in a particular subject - if you teach maths, you teach only maths.  These specialist teachers are given at least five years of training targeted at specific age groups, during which they gain a deep understanding both of their subject and of how children learn.  After qualifying, primary school teachers will typically take just two lessons per day, spending the rest of their time assisting students who require extra help and discussing teaching techniques with colleagues.  "If you compare that to an English practitioner in a primary school now, they might have five days of training in their initial teacher training year, if they're doing the School Direct route, for example," says Ben McMullen, head teacher of Ashburnham Community School, London.  "They might have some follow-up training during the first or second year of training - inset, staff meetings etcetera - but there's no comparison between the expertise of someone who's had five years of training in a specific subject to someone who's had only a handful of days."  It's a similar story in secondary school, where teachers spend less time in the classroom with pupils than they do on planning and refining lessons.  There are other differences too. School days are longer - from 07:00 until 16:00 or 17:00. Class sizes are larger. And lessons are shorter - each is 35 minutes long, followed by 15 minutes of unstructured play.  There is no streaming according to ability and every student must understand before the teacher moves on. In the early years of school basic arithmetic is covered more slowly than in the UK, says McMullen, who has travelled to Shanghai in one of the groups of British teachers sent every year by the Department of Education to watch and learn.  "They looked at our curriculum and were horrified by how much we were trying to teach," he says.  "They wouldn't teach fractions until year four or five. By that time, they assume that the children were very fluent in multiplication and division.  "This is essentially a 'teaching for mastery' approach: covering less and making smaller incremental movements forward, ensuring the class move together as one and that you go over stuff again and again until it's truly understood."  In a world where a lot is going wrong there is also a lot going right. So what if you could build a country with policies that actually worked, by homing in on ideas around the world that have been truly successful?  It seems that other cities in mainland China may not be on quite the same level as Shanghai. In the 2015 Pisa test Shanghai was bundled together with Beijing, Jiangsu and Guangdong, and they jointly came fifth in maths, behind Singapore, Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong.  It's also been suggested that Shanghai's results in previous years could have been skewed by the failure to include about a quarter of pupils in the city. However Pisa insists its results demonstrate that the children of menial workers in Shanghai outperform the children of professionals in the West.  This is one of the key attractions of the system - it helps poor children realise their potential, increasing social mobility. But there are also drawbacks, according to Henrietta Moore of the Institute for Global Prosperity at University College London.  "The idea there is that effort brings rewards and so you will get this totally driven sort of idea but what you don't get - and what Chinese maths teachers are currently grappling with - is this creative problem-solving that requires space and mulling and dwelling," she says.  "We're actually much better at this in the UK and they're trying to develop that and learn from us."  Another criticism of the system is that parents work children too hard. An estimated 80% of students receive private lessons outside school.  "One of the downsides of parental interest in education is they get competitive - they're more competitive than the children - so they want to have all these extra classes," says Moore.  So is this a system other countries would do well to adopt?  "I would adopt the idea that anyone who teaches maths needs a deep understanding of the conceptual building of maths and a deep understanding of how children learn that," says Anne Watson, emeritus professor of maths teaching at Oxford University. "I would also want to take on board the idea of high expectations for everyone."  "Two things really appeal to me about this," she says. "The idea that everyone can be more of a maths master than I think we believe here in the UK. I also really like the incredible attention to the micro-detail. I'm really interested in this notion of incrementalism and moving things on in small chunks.  "The fundamentals of this policy are right and it's incredibly inspiring to think everybody can become more freed up by maths."  Ben McMullen's primary school has already been borrowing some of Shanghai's ideas, he says.  There is no streaming, pupils are interacting more and there is a "different atmosphere" in class.  "The younger learners moving up the school have an incredibly robust sense of maths, calculation and of concept," McMullen says.  And for teachers there is another great upside, he says - less marking.  Join the conversation - find the BBC World Service on Facebook and Twitter.
Twitter says it's trying to fix "complications" with the switchover of the @Potus account.  The account for the President of the United States was handed over to Donald Trump on Friday and was supposed to keep its existing followers.  Those users were also meant to automatically follow a new archive account with the Obama administration's tweets - @Potus44.  But some claim they've not been moved over.  Others say they stopped following @Potus before the inauguration, but are now re-following the account even though they didn't choose to do so.  There are even claims some people who never followed Obama or Trump are automatically following Donald Trump as @Potus.  The White House had been working with Twitter on plans for the switchover for some time.  Before the inauguration on Thursday night, @Potus under Barack Obama had 13.6 million followers.  @Potus44 now has 14.2 million and @Potus under President Trump has 14.3 million.  It's unclear if it's down to new followers or a glitch.  It's been reported Twitter blames the complications on two scenarios.  It could be that those who blocked @Potus before the inauguration effectively blocked @Potus44 (because of workings going on behind the scenes at Twitter).  Another suggestion is that some unfollowed @Potus after Twitter had already counted them as a follower to be transferred over to Donald Trump's account.  Twitter previously told Newsbeat both @Potus and @Potus44 should end up with around 13 million followers after the transfer process. This may not account for new followers to both accounts.  The switchover took some time overnight with followers dropping on both accounts at first.  Meanwhile Donald Trump changed the image at the top of his new @Potus account after Twitter users spotted it was from Barack Obama's 2009 inauguration.  Several other accounts have also been switched over including @Flotus for Melania Trump and @WhiteHouse from @ObamaWhiteHouse.  It's not known if they're affected.  Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Two world-leading clean energy projects have opened in the south Indian state of Tamil Nadu.  A £3m industrial plant is capturing the CO2 emissions from a coal boiler and using the CO2 to make valuable chemicals. It is a world first.  And just 100km away is the world's biggest solar farm, making power for 150,000 homes on a 10 sq km site.  The industrial plant appears especially significant as it offers a breakthrough by capturing CO2 without subsidy.  Built at a chemical plant in the port city of Tuticorin, it is projected to save 60,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions a year by incorporating them into the recipes for soda ash and other chemicals.  The owner of the chemicals plant, Ramachadran Gopalan, told a BBC Radio 4 documentary: "I am a businessman. I never thought about saving the planet. I needed a reliable stream of CO2, and this was the best way of getting it."  He says his operation has now almost zero emissions. He hopes soon to install a second coal boiler to make more CO2 to synthesise fertiliser.  The chemical used in stripping the CO2 from the flue gas was invented by two young Indian chemists. They failed to raise Indian finance to develop it, but their firm, Carbonclean Solutions, working with the Institute of Chemical Technology at Mumbai and Imperial College in London, got backing from the UK's entrepreneur support scheme.  Their technique uses a form of salt to bond with CO2 molecules in the boiler chimney. The firm says it is more efficient than typical amine compounds used for the purpose.  The plant is projected to save 60,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions a year  They say it also needs less energy, produces less alkaline waste and allows the use of a cheaper form of steel - all radically reducing the cost of the whole operation.  The firm admits its technology of Carbon Capture and Utilisation won't cure climate change, but says it may provide a useful contribution by gobbling up perhaps 5-10% of the world's emissions from coal.  Lord Oxburgh, former chairman of Shell, and now director and head of the UK government's carbon capture advisory group, told the BBC: "We have to do everything we can to reduce the harmful effects of burning fossil fuels and it is great news that more ways are being found of turning at least some of the CO2 into useful products."  Meanwhile, the nearby giant Kamuthi solar plant offers a marker for India's ambition for a rapid expansion in renewables.  The world's largest solar farm at Kamuthi in southern India  It is truly enormous; from the tall observation tower, the ranks of black panels stretch almost to the horizon.  For large-scale projects, the cost of new solar power in India is now cheaper than coal and Prime Minister Modi plans to power 60 million homes from the sun by 2022.  But solar doesn't generate 24/7 on an industrial scale, so India has adopted a "more of everything" approach to energy until then.  Its recently-published National Electricity Plan projects no further additions to coal-based capacity between 2022 and 2027, and estimates that the share of clean generating capacity (including nuclear) will increase to 56.5% by the end of that period.  The firm behind the solar plant, Adani, is also looking to create Australia's biggest coal mine, which it says will provide power for up to 100 million people in India. Renewables, it says, can't answer India's vast appetite for power to lift people out of poverty.  Will India stick to its renewables promises with Donald Trump as US president?  And questions have been raised recently as to whether India will stick to its renewables promises now President-elect Donald Trump may be about to scrap climate targets for the US.  At the recent Marrakech climate conference, China, the EU and many developing countries pledged to forge ahead with emissions-cutting plans regardless of US involvement. But India offered no such guarantee.  Some environmentalists are not too worried: they think economics may drive India's clean energy revolution.  Roger Harrabin presents Climate Change: The Trump Card on BBC Radio 4 at 20:00 GMT on Tuesday, 3 January.  Correction 8 January 2017: This article was updated to change 'Baking soda' to 'Soda ash', and to include more details from India's National Electricity Plan
Leicester Tigers have sacked director of rugby Richard Cockerill after nearly eight years in charge.  The 46-year-old has been on the Premiership club's coaching staff since 2004, took over as head coach in 2009 and became director of rugby in 2010.  "It is with great sadness and regret that I leave my position. I still believe that I am the right person to lead the team," Cockerill said.  Head coach Aaron Mauger will take over on an interim basis.  Leicester won three Premiership titles under Cockerill and were twice runners-up Leicester were runners-up in the European Cup in Cockerill's first season in charge and won the LV Cup in 2011-12  Tigers are fifth in the Premiership, 15 points adrift of leaders Wasps having lost five of their 12 league games so far this season. They were beaten 16-12 by Saracens on New Year's Day.  Cockerill, who has spent 23 of the last 25 years of his career with Tigers, said he "respected the board's decision" to make a change they see as being "in the best interests of the club".  He added: "This club has made me the person and the coach I am today and I will never forget what they have done for me. I will miss being part of the Tigers family."  Last month, following the 18-16 Champions Cup win over Munster, Cockerill said reports claiming he faced the sack and that described the coaching structure at Leicester Tigers as toxic were "rubbish". • None Listen: 'Lancaster would be a very good choice for Leicester'  Former England and Tigers hooker Cockerill spent 10 years with the club as a player from 1992 before returning to Welford Road as an academy coach.  After two spells in interim charge he was appointed full-time head coach in April 2009, with Tigers winning the Premiership title and reaching the European Cup final in his first season in the role.  Leicester have never failed to reach the Premiership semi-finals under Cockerill and as well as winning the final in 2008-09, they were also victorious in 2009-10 and 2012-13.  Tigers chairman Peter Tom CBE said: "We thank Richard for his loyal and dedicated service as a player, coach and director of rugby. He has a great passion for the club and for the game of rugby, and has shared in many massive occasions with the Tigers.  "The club always has aspirations to contest the major honours in the game and that remains unchanged but the board believes this is the right time to make a change."  As a player, hooker Cockerill made 262 appearances for Tigers, winning five league titles, two domestic cups, two Heineken Cups and he also played 27 times for England.  I am not surprised. Tigers cannot stand the fact they are in fifth position and quite a bit away from the top four; they want to be top two and won't get there this season.  They haven't been there for the last three or four seasons and that is one of the reasons that Tigers have reluctantly had to say goodbye to Richard.  His record is second to none. He is man and boy with the Tigers and if you cut him in half he would be Tigers colours through and through.
American wildlife photographer Joel Sartore is fighting to save endangered species by making us fall in love with them.  Joel Sartore had been a National Geographic wildlife photographer for 15 years when his wife, Kathy, was diagnosed with breast cancer. With three young children at home, he took a year off work to nurse her through radiation treatment and chemotherapy.  This pause from travelling the world to take photos gave him the chance to slow down and consider the impact of of his work.  "Magazine stories come and go," he says.  "But I had not seen the plight of endangered species getting better so I thought about what I could do to actually make a difference?"  The answer came to him while he was photographing a naked mole-rat at a children's zoo in his home town of Lincoln, Nebraska.  He decided to place the small mammal against the white background of a cutting board which he had found in the zoo's kitchen. The result was a professional studio-style portrait.  "I thought maybe if we do eye-contact, if we photograph animals where there are no distractions, all equal in size on black and white backgrounds, where a mouse is every bit as big and amazing as an elephant, then maybe we could get the public hooked into the plight of endangered species and extinction," he says.  As Sartore's wife recovered, he began to travel to other zoos in his area to take more portraits.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Joel Sartore is an American photographer on a 25 year long wildlife project.  Staff co-operated by helping the photographer create sets, allocating him rooms which he could paint black or white and leaving food inside.  "Usually the animal thinks he's just coming in to get lunch, which he is, but he's also going to get his picture taken," says Sartore.  As the project grew, it caught the attention of editors at National Geographic, who commissioned Sartore to produce a few series of photographs, on amphibians for example, and America's endangered species.  The photographer began travelling the world armed with different-sized tents in which to photograph smaller animals like birds and lizards. For the larger ones, he remained reliant on the safer environment of zoos.  "This animal was the sweetest little guy. He gave us all sorts of different body languages and facial expressions during the shoot. I remember also that he was eating through most of the portrait session as well. So he may look shy, but he was actually very happy at this moment." © Photo by Joel Sartore/National Geographic Photo Ark  "Most of the animals I photograph are born and raised in captivity and their keepers know the critters' moods very well," he says.  "Once in a while I'll come across an animal that's really feisty and a bit aggressive, but by and large, these shoots go as smooth as butter."  He has now photographed more than 6,000 species in 40 countries. The project has developed into The National Geographic Photo Ark, and its portraits have made it on to National Geographic Magazine covers and have been projected on to buildings - the UN Building and Empire State Building in New York and the Vatican in Rome.  An image of "Toughie" projected onto St Peter's Basilica © Photo by Joel Sartore/National Geographic Photo Ark  Some of the species captured by the Photo Ark are on the verge of extinction.  This year, Sartore photographed Toughie, the world's last known living Rabbs' fringe-limbed treefrog.  Toughie was captured in Panama in 2005 by conservationists attempting to save as many amphibians as possible from chytrid fungus, a skin disease that can have a 100% mortality rate among frogs.  He was brought back to the Atlanta Botanical Gardens in Georgia where he mated with captured females, but none of his tadpoles survived and his female companions died. Sartore took Toughie's portrait shortly before he also died, in September this year.  "I try to talk about him every time I give public presentations because instead of getting depressed about him going extinct, I'm going to use his story to hopefully inspire others to care," he says.  Sartore has also photographed one of the last surviving northern white rhinos in a zoo in the Czech Republic.  "We got to her just in time," he says of the animal, who was called Nabire.  "We got a very nice portrait of her and she laid down and went to sleep at the end of the shoot because she slept a lot at the end of her life."  She died about a week later.  With her death, and the death of another northern white rhino in San Diego not long afterwards, there are only three of the species left, all living under armed-guard in Kenya. They are too old to breed, though a conservation project is attempting to create an embryo through IVF which would be implanted in the womb of a similar rhino species.  "It's not just the little things we're allowing to slip into extinction," says Sartore.  "It's the big stuff too, unfortunately."  Sartore hopes his project will eventually document 12,000 species and become a resource for future generations. He also hopes it will prevent other species from meeting the same fate as Toughie and Nola.  "At least 75-80% of the species that I've photographed could be saved from extinction, but people need to know they exist first and they need to fall in love with them and want to learn how they can help them," he says.  While there's an understanding that bigger animals, like polar bears and tigers, are under threat, Sartore says there is not enough awareness of the plight of smaller ones like rodents, toads and bats.  "The goal of Photo Ark is to celebrate all creatures great and small and to let people know that as these other species go away, so could we," he says.  "It's in humanity's interest not to throw away all of creation - to keep things around so we have a healthy planet."  Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Original editions of Mein Kampf: It urged Germans to avenge their defeat in World War One  "Mein Kampf becomes German best-seller" reads one international headline. "Hitler's Mein Kampf a hit in Germany" reads another.  The fact that the Nazi manifesto reached number one in Der Spiegel's non-fiction charts in April is cited as evidence that Adolf Hitler's propaganda is making a comeback in Germany.  But the term "best-seller" does not necessarily mean very much. A quarter of all books sold in Germany are bought in the run-up to Christmas. At other times of the year it is possible to top listings with relatively few sales.  Mein Kampf (My Struggle) is an expensive academic text, costing €58 (£49; $60), and is being bought by libraries, schools and history academics.  "This was a very special case. You can't really compare it with other books," Thomas Koch from the German Publishers' and Booksellers' Association told me.  "It's the first time that an annotated version has been published. So I can imagine that was why figures were relatively high."  The plain IfZ edition of Mein Kampf: Publication has not been contested in court  Most of the book's sales were made in the first quarter of 2016, before tailing off after April. This suggests that the initial run, when the book was republished in German for the first time, was followed by market saturation.  For a German non-fiction book, sales of 85,000 are not bad. But the figures don't indicate a runaway hit.  The current biggest non-fiction seller is The Hidden Life of Trees, a book about the ecosystem of woodland, which has sold half a million copies so far.  The major hit of the last few years is a witty explanation of how the human bowel functions, by a medical student in her 20s, that sold over a million.  The top-selling non-fiction book of the past decade, by comedian Hape Kerkeling, sold five million copies. Mein Kampf on the other hand is ranked 79th for non-fiction sales on the German Amazon site, narrowly beaten by a handbook on web coding, and a long way behind a handbook explaining how to get more Twitter followers.  Nevertheless it is understandable that the publishers might be overwhelmed. IfZ, which printed the book, is a non-profit research institute, not a publishing house, and had expected lower sales of what is a dense academic text.  Prof Wirsching says publication of Mein Kampf with scholarly notes did not help neo-Nazis  And the institute believes this edition of Mein Kampf is helping to demystify, rather than empower, Hitler's legacy.  "It turned out that the fear the publication would promote Hitler's ideology, or even make it socially acceptable and give neo-Nazis a new propaganda platform, was totally unfounded," said IfZ director Andreas Wirsching.  "On the contrary, the debate about Hitler's world view and his approach to propaganda offered a chance to look at the causes and consequences of totalitarian ideologies." • None History Extra: When Poland was torn to pieces The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
J2, or Granny, in the Salish Sea in 2010  The world's oldest known killer whale, affectionately known as Granny, is missing and presumed dead, researchers say.  Estimated to be over 100 years old, the matriarch's official name was J2.  She was the focal point of a recent BBC documentary that followed biologists' study of her clan of orcas, an effort to unravel an evolutionary mystery.  Studying female orcas, which live long beyond their reproductive years, has revealed insights into the menopause.  Only three mammals are known to experience menopause - orcas, short-finned pilot whales and humans. Even our closest ape cousins, chimpanzees, do not go through it. Their fertility peters out with age and, in the wild, they seldom live beyond childbearing years.  Following Granny and other matriarch killer whales has shown their crucial role within the family group. They guide the pod as it forages, take care of other females' young calves and even feed the larger males.  These post-reproductive female leaders help their families to survive, and the advantage they offer could show what drives a species to evolve to stop reproducing.  An older female orca leads the way with her pod trailing behind  This research continues, but an icon of the most well-studied killer whale population on the planet will no longer be part of it.  Prof Darren Croft from the University of Exeter, UK, who leads this evolutionary biology research, told BBC News: "It was inevitable that this day was going to come but it is very sad news and a further blow to this population."  He explained that in her later years she had "been helping her family group to survive by sharing her knowledge of when and where to find food."  The orcas of an area known as the Salish Sea - close to Vancouver and Seattle - have been the subject of a four decades long study led by Dr Ken Balcomb from the Center for Whale Research (CWR).  Dr Balcomb started this work after a period - between 1965 and 1975 - during which killer whales were taken from the Salish Sea to supply marine parks. The predictable habits of these Southern Resident killer whales, as they are called, made them an ideal target for capture,  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. How a team in the US researched an orca family tree  By observing and cataloguing the killer whales since 1976, when he first photographed Granny, Dr Balcomb exposed just how unsustainable the hunting of the whales was. He and the CWR garnered the Southern Residents protection as an endangered species.  On the centre's website, which first reported Granny's death, Dr Balcomb wrote that he last saw her on 12 October, 2016, as she swam north far ahead of the others.  "Perhaps other dedicated whale-watchers have seen her since then," he wrote, "but by year's end she is officially missing from the Southern Resident Killer Whale population, and with regret we now consider her deceased."  Prof Croft added that it was "just incredible" to think of what Granny lived through over the last century and how the world and her environment had changed over that time.  "She lived through the live captures," he told BBC News, "and in recent years her world has changed dramatically with dwindling salmon stocks and increases in shipping threatening the survival of this incredible population.  "Although J2 is gone we will continue to benefit for many decades to come, from the incredible data collected on her life over the last 40 years by the Center for Whale Research."  The population of Southern Residents is now estimated to be just 78 animals, as of 31 December 2016.  Numbers of salmon, which these killer whales feed on, are dwindling in the region. This has prompted Dr Balcomb to wonder if there is a future for these animals as their food supply runs down.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. The killer whales struggling to feed themselves • None What can orcas teach us about the menopause?
